The general good experience.
I'm also not a big fan of the government saying when an industry is supposed to
end. Yes,
I'm a big fan of the government empowering the private sector to innovate,
to get to the next, you know, affordable, renewable source.
That's going to happen. It's my opinion. If Jeff Bezos doesn't get there first,
the first trillionaire, in my opinion,
who's already born is going to be the person that comes up with an abundant,
renewable source for the future that everyone can't afford. Now, I,
I get the green new deal and the tenants of it, what they're trying to do,
but what's not addressed in that is global warming and the operative word
being global.
If we don't get India and China and Russia and Africa and south America to
reduce their carbon footprint with us,
you can literally destroy the oil and gas industry here in the U S at no
gain to the globe. That doesn't make sense to me.
That is such an important point. That's so important.
Nobody's talking about the other countries.
So China and India are building four coal plants per month.
And it's not a case of if we build it, they will, they will come.
That's not how this works. In fact,
our energy independence is also an issue of national security as well.
We're energy independent. Why?
Because of fracking that are frankly Joe Biden and Carla Harris actually want to
do away with, by 20, 35 as well as actually a national agenda.
And so we are reducing our carbon footprint because of fracking because
natural gas burns cleaner, but most importantly, Joe, 20 years ago,
we would kill a bad guy in the middle east.
And then we have to turn around and ask these same countries for resources and
oil. That's a conflict of interest if you could imagine, of course,
so we don't have to do that anymore. So when we kill cost,
some Soleimani outside of Baghdad airport,
who was a bad guy responsible for actually killing some west point graduates,
actually in Iraq, we don't have to ask them for oil.
So this is an issue where we have to marry economics
innovation and of course,
make sure that we are good stewards of this earth, right?
But right now there's roughly 1 billion with a B roughly 1 billion
light trucks and vehicles in the world today that are gas powered.
And over the course of the next 20 years,
the world is going to add another billion vehicles and of that billion
750 million of them are going to be gas powered.
Again, it's not a California problem.
It's a global issue that we have to take a look at.
From a defense standpoint,
I flew Apache helicopters and we have a joke in the army. How do you know if,
if somebody flew Apaches, we will tell you,
we always do.
And what's funny about the Apache and about destroyers and
about [inaudible] and that's,
you can't fuel them on solar and wind.
We literally aren't going anywhere for the next few generations.
What I want to hear the conversation shift to is more of the idea of us
working with these oil and gas companies to innovate for the future.
And they want it to it's a matter of time until we get there,
but let's bring them along with the conversation and not demonize them.
And as somebody that's Houston born and bred,
this is the conversation that's near and dear to my heart. Because again,
it's the energy capital of the world. And I am all for solar. I am all for wind.
I am all for renewables. I get it.
But it's a combination of all of the above, not an,
not an or conversation.
Now. Let's what is the green new deal? Can you lay that out for us?
What are they, what are they looking to.
Do deal? You know,
one big thing that Joe Biden talks about and what Bernie Sanders was talking
about as well as being carbon neutral by 2035,
which effectively is an end to the oil and gas industry United States.
That that's one, that's one tenant of it. Uh, another one is, uh,
fracking bans. And again, as I just articulated,
this was the very technology that's actually reducing our carbon footprint.
Also just more restrictions on oil and gas companies to be able to
drill and find resources as well. Um,
and it is a job killer in Houston, Texas,
particularly as we recover from COVID-19 and we've been hit pretty
hard because if you notice the oil and gas industry has been hit pretty hard
too, started off, uh, with just a,
obviously a shortage of, uh, of,
of demand because people just stopped driving and that really drove cost down
tremendously.
And so we have to recover from this thing and the way to do it is not to employ
more restrictions on an already hurting industry that quite
frankly has got to be around or rather you like it or not.
Also the byproducts of petrochemicals as well. This microphone,
this mug, your phone,
it's hydrocarbons the shoes on your feet.
It's all byproducts of the oil and gas industry.
And so what people don't realize is that the chairs that they sit in,
the silverware that they eat off of, where they eat, sleep, breathe, and live.
The mattress that they're sleeping on is fossil fuels.
We literally aren't going anywhere.
I understand the benevolence of the green new deal. It's always good in theory.
I got it. I think,
I think if we could magically snap our fingers and the world could be just
carbon neutral. That, that, that, that sounds great. That sounds great.
But that's not how they're, that's not how this works.
We are always about progression.
This country is always about innovation and progression.
We've been doing this for generations.
Let's continue that progression by enabling again,
the private sector to innovate to next level.
If we're paying attention to what the green new deal says,
it basically just demonizes an entire industry.
And I think for a lack of understanding what the industry does for the world.
Is there in the green new deal,
is there a solution for what they deem the problems of the oil and gas
industry? Do they have a replacement for those resources? So therein lies.
The point.
Hydrocarbons are a storable energy that have a lot of
power in them. And that's actually the reason why the world uses them. Uh,
bottom line is, is this. You can't turn your lights on the world.
Can't turn their lights on the U S can't turn their lights on for the time being
without oil and gas, oil, and gas industry.
If we were able to miraculously even attempt to turn this entire country into a
renewable source, it's just not possible.
I don't know exactly what the numbers are,
but we would actually only be able to fuel less than last.
I read 8% of our world of the United States is energy demands.
If we were able to completely transform to renewable resources.
So that's just wind and solar.
That's when solar and battery lithium ion,
you know, these kinds of these kinds.
Of things. It also requires something to charge them. What about nuclear?
Because yeah,
one of the things that is really uncomfortable for people is that
nuclear power is one of the cleanest sources of power that we know of.
It's just, we know about disasters. We know about Fukushima.
We know about three mile island.
We know about all the Chernobyl Chernobyl we know about these disasters,
which in many cases are indicative of old technology like
Fukushima. They just really didn't know how to shut it down,
which is bananas that decided to build it anyway. Mind-boggling.
They're like, we'll figure it out later, but.
They there's, there's ways of doing nuclear, right?
Where you have very little environmental damage that's right.
But that's a, you just bring up nuclear power and everybody's like die.
Right. It really freaks out. Yeah. And they, they, they Trenoble,
what do you think about nuclear? So this is, this is again,
the importance of innovation. You brought up an excellent point. You see,
in the past technologies,
we didn't have the ability to be able to really create something without
understanding what the worst outcomes could possibly be.
Do you think over the course of the last 50 years,
we've actually advanced to know more and to be able to do better and to be more
effective with how we, how we do this. Of course we have, right.
But it kind of goes back to the oil and gas industry as well.
When you have the overt demonization of an energy source,
people just as we were talking about, they just shut it off. Right.
It becomes a headline that said, I don't want anything else to do with it.
Oh no. We thought about incidents. That's it?
It becomes headline news instead of us saying, well, wait a minute,
if you're going,
try to tell me that 2020 was the same as the seventies and the sixties and the
fifties from a technological standpoint. It's ridiculous. I mean,
look at your Tesla that you drive. No, I mean,
that is a technological Marvel and advancement in itself,
and now we're producing it on a mass scale. Thank you for Elon Musk.
And again, even the production of the Tesla that,
that doesn't mean we do away with the oil and gas industry. Oh,
we could have both. Let's continue to do both. So from a nuclear standpoint,
I also think that that's gotten demonized as well because of some incidences.
And we need to realize that from a technological standpoint,
we are certainly further along than we were before. Let's pursue this.
Let's empower these companies to come up with a safe way of building
these,
these plants and also making sure that everybody can stay safe in the future.
I've actually heard discussed. That's kind of fascinating is, um,
technologies that could be on the horizon that can actually pull carbon and pull
particles from the atmosphere that they can develop essentially
enormous air filters that can be used in high pollution
areas and, you know, cities and urban centers.
And they actually can pull pollution out of the air and potentially
use that carbon. And it can actually be a resource that's exactly. Right. Right.
So tell me, people think about that pretty crazy that they kind of make sense,
right? Like if you can put it out there, then it's there. Well,
if you can push it out, can you extract it?
It seems like you should be able to meet,
we re extract nitrogen from the atmosphere. Right. I mean,
that's how they make a lot of fertilizer. That's right.
There's gotta be a way to take that carbon out. Of course there.
Is. And, and, and again, people want to look at where we are right now.
Maybe we aren't there now. Right.
But we can easily be there in the, not so distant future. Sure.
But 150 years ago, we were riding horses. Thank you. Yeah.
And think about what you just said that wasn't.
That long ago, by the way, that's pretty recent. That's crazy. Yeah.
In world war one and world war one, they were still using livestock. Yeah.
Yeah. Bananas. I mean, think about that. I know. Yeah.
It's, uh, it's hard for people to,
once they have it in their mind that they're doing a good thing. Like the,
the proponents of the green new deal, they're doing a good thing.
This is the way in anyone who opposes that,
or anyone who even has debate about it is on the wrong side.
You are on the side of the fossil fuel industry. You've been paid off.
You're a shell. You don't care about the environment.
You don't care about our children.
And then they'll propose it this way that you know,
this person does not care about the future of this country.
We're going to burn look, what's happening in California. This is Trump's fault.
This is like, we were discussing this in the podcast yesterday.
It didn't matter who became president in 2016,
the exact same conditions would be in place.
Here is battleship is an enormous thing. It's hard to turn around.
And you think that,
or another of Hillary Clinton was president that California wouldn't be on fire
right now. Of course the exact same thing would be happening.
Would it be a hundred percent? There's no other way around it.
And, and what I always say to people that have, have this conversation with,
and again,
I have two kids at the house and it is my opinion at this point with two baby
girls,
that it is incumbent upon us to make sure that we hand them a better world than
we inherited. Yes. We were like, again, you know, the birth of a child is a,
is a spiritual thing.
We were saying this before the podcast and talking about your,
your youngest and how crazy it is. It's crazy. It's like,
life-changing, my youngest is 10, but still I think back. And you know,
there's times when I'm alone, where I just go,
I can't even believe I have children like Canada. I can't even believe that.
It's a thing that a person who comes out of your own DNA is now
walking and talking and hanging out with you. Yes, yes.
And, and destroying our living room.
That's we live and breathe. Yeah, for sure. So of.
Course I care about, of course I care about them.
And of course I care about the environment. I just have,
I just want to take a pragmatic approach to making sure.
That yeah, well, we're so polarized today. If you don't agree with me,
you must be evil and this is, or you must be naive or you must be foolish.
This is,
these are the perspectives that are the narrative that you see on social media
today,
which is where so many people are forming their opinions and then arguing them.
And it's insanity. Yeah. It's,
it's such a crazy time where people want people.
I was having a conversation with a friend of mine today.
They were talking about this new social media platform where this person was
arguing. Don't hear people's opinions. What we need to do is de platform them.
Right? Like what? This is, that's insane.
So everybody has to agree with you and you don't, I don't even know if.
You're right. You don't even know if you're right.
The way you find out you're right.
You got to talk to other people.
I think there's a lot of times I've talked to people and I went, huh? Okay.
Yeah, I'm wrong? Okay. Like that's important the whole point. Yeah.
You have to be able to have these conversations, um,
what the proponents of the green new deal,
what are they proposing in terms of replacing fossil fuels
and the,
these things that we're relying on currently to power everything and have the
country running exactly how it's running now and therein lies the problem.
They're not, they're not, so what are they saying now, when they're,
when they're questioned on this, like,
what are we going to do in 2035 in terms of like,
how are we going to keep the lights on? I.
Have no idea, really. And this is, and this is literally,
this is literally part of my problem. And that is, if you,
weren't going to tell me a substantive viable solution. But if, so,
if you want to say it, that's it snap my fingers like Thanos, that's it.
We're going to be carbon neutral here and okay. Okay. So what's the path to do.
So what resources are we going to use to get there?
How are we going to replace these resources? And again,
I'm not a climate denier. I keep saying this over and over again, but,
but nothing's being proposed. That's rational and reasonable.
That's actually addressing global warming. Yeah.
It completely leaves out the other countries.
It completely leaves out the globe and that's problematic. Yes.
Yeah. What they, so they're not even discussing it at all. No,
they're just conveniently. It sounds good. It's it's it's it sounds good.
Yeah. It sounds sound good. Sounds amazing. It sounds great. But it's.
Like the name of it. Green new deal, who doesn't like green thing.
Beautiful episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on
Spotify. That's right. They're free from September 1st is December 1st.
They're going to be available everywhere, but after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking you. Just go download Spotify. Buh-bye
okay.